All right so now we've downloaded web content.
The next step is to see how we can use similar code to download an image and then display that for the
user.
Then be in a perfect position to play our guest the celebrity app in the next area.
So a quick challenge for you then could you create a new app and then create a button and an image within
that app and set up the button so that when you tap it something is sent to the logs.
So you just need a button and an image and then make the button interactive and send something to the
logs when it's tapped.
Good luck.
All right.
I should have been a fairly straightforward challenge.
So I create a new project I'll call it downloading images.
All the usual settings.
Next next.
And finish.
Here we go.
I'm going to get rid of that label and then drag in a button.
Top left and I'm going to make it nice and bake so it will change the width to match the parent.
Then I'm going to try again an image a few which I want to take up the rest of the screen.
So fill parent with and fill parent height get the button.
If it wasn't obvious last time it's going to be used to download the image.
So just change the text that if you didn't do that bit and then I'm going to change the click method.
To download image.
And finally I just need to write the code for the download image method.
So usual public FOID download image.
And remember it's been called by a view which will call view
that package and then we're just going to log
some interaction specifically the button has been tapped.
It's if you can remember how to do that then shame on you.
Hopefully you did can we use the same emulator.
I was using before and let's just take a look and make sure we've got a little bit of interaction.
OK so the appliques good get tap download image.
There we go.
Button typed.
Fantastic.
So I always like to set that up first before I try and do anything with my buttons just to make sure
that everything is connected and working fine.
Of course to download our image we're going to need an image to download and I'm going to use one of
my favorite cartoon characters Bart Simpson and I'm just going to put wiki in there so that with any
luck we'll get that one from Wikipedia which generally speaking is easy to use and I'm just kind of
copy the link address sorry the image you are el and then paste that back in here.
So we're going to call it in the download image method here.
So just comment in the U r l.
We're going to download the image from.
While we're here we'll just connect up the image view
and I'm going to leave the ID as image view that.
And in the uncreate method we'll just find that that's going to be an image view.
They'll call it downloaded image and it's going to be an image view of course cast to image view.
And we get it using find view by ID results to ID dot image view we.
All right.
Let's now create our class to extend async task and download our image.
So as before.
Public class call it image download at this time.
And of course it extends async task and we're going to send it a string.
We're not going to call the method while it's running but this time we're going to return the image
itself.
So that's going to be a bitmap rather than the content of a Web site which was the string last time
round.
OK.
Last thing click on the red light bulb and implement the do in background method that just saves us
having to type it ourselves so you can see it knows that we want to return a bitmap this time.
But just as before.
Let's change the frog to be called You are elves and now that's right.
OK.
To download this image.
Now you could try attempting doing some of this yourself because a lot of the code is the same as before.
But if you want to follow along that's absolutely fine.
So first off we're going to create a u r l u r l and we're going to create as a new R L from you our
Elle's 0.
So that is creating it from the u r l that we passed to this method.
And again you can see we've got the error there which tells us to surround it with try and catch.
Because that might fail if we've got a malformed.
R L So it's even giving us the likely exception that might happen there but it shouldn't be because
we're going to specify what you are aliens.
Now let's create our new U R L connection so h t t p u r l connection Kulick connection this time and
it's going to be an h t t p u r l connection and we're going to create it from our u r l dot open connection.
Now you can see we've got another red underline there.
That's because this is going to cause a different sort of exception so we can actually add a new exception.
So this is an IO exception which is input output exception so it will likely occur if we haven't asked
permission for example to use the internet or if the user doesn't have their Internet switched on.
Now here's where things change slightly from what we did before.
Before we went through all of the characters that were being returned one by one and put them all together
because we're downloading an image this time we can't do that in quite the same way because an image
isn't made up of a bunch of characters.
So essentially what we do is download the image in one go and then convert the data that we get to a
bitmap image which finally we're going to be able to set to how downloaded image image view.
So to do that we use connection don't connect to connect to our connection and then we create an input
stream similar to what we did before.
I'm going to call it I guess well let's call it input string.
I guess that's a bit clearer but Stream.
And that's going to be.
Connection don't get input stream.
So that then downloads the whole input stream in one go.
And finally we want to convert that to a bitmap.
So we use bitmap to create a bitmap.
I'm going to call it my bitmap and then we use what's called bitmap factory which is just a bunch of
commands that we can use to manipulate and encode or decode images dot de-code stream and then the stream
that we want to decode is the input stream.
So that just converts this data that's been downloaded into an image that we can then work with and
then we can return my bitmap.
So those lines of code then download the image convert it to a bitmap that we can then return to the
original calling method.
Which is going to be up here and we call that in much the same way that we did before.
So we're going to create a new image down later and we'll call it task again because once again it is
a task that we're using async task for and that's going to be a new image download a
and we'll create a bitmap I'll call it my image and then we'll set my image to
task.
Execute.
And
we need to pass to that the string that we want to execute and then dot gets to get the result.
So just the same as before but this time we're working with a bitmap rather than a string that's going
to tell us to surround it with try and catch which I'm very happy to.
And then we'll have all of those I think actually I'm going to get rid of those and just combine them
to a single exception there because there isn't a chance that my image doesn't get returned properly
as well and I want to include that in these possibilities of exceptions.
Finally then we need to get the downloaded image image view and apply my image bitmap to that.
So I'm just going to change or move the definition to up here so that I can access it from my download
image method.
And then we'll set it there.
And then finally here was that downloaded image dot set image bitmap to my image and we got one thing
of course we do need to add the necessarily line necessarily line the necessary line to our manifest.
And you remember that is use is permission and we want Android daat permission dot
Internet.
There we go.
You can see we get a red wiggly line there.
We have got an error.
And that's because we won't get anything returned if this fails and we need to have something returned.
So what we'll do is if we're unsuccessful here in our Tri
to download the image we'll just return NULL and then that cause won't cause any problems.
It will be nice to display I mean error message for the user but that's fairly easy to do.
We could just have a toast or something here.
So we're not going to spend time doing that now.
All right then let's have a look.
Let's run that.
And we should then find if we just quickly run through the code that we've written.
When the user
taps on our button the download image method will be called which will then execute the task of image
downloader.
With that you are all the image download a task extends icing string which means it happens on the background
thread.
And that will then convert the well if it can to a valid you will create an HGP your connection connect
to that creates an input stream which gets the content of that you Arel convert that to a bit map and
then return it to the original method that called it which will then set downloaded image which is our
image view to have that image.
All right let's give it a try.
So here's our download image button.
We tap it and there we go download the image and displays it there for us.
Fantastic.
So that's how we download images.
We're now going to put all this together now.
Pretty fun.
Guess the celebrity app.